Another winter warmer recipe for you and here's my recipe for a
beef cottage pie with a secret ingredient
for an extra crispy topping.
And for the ingredients you'll need: 500g of beef mince,
3 carrots, 2 onions, some oil to fry, some
tomato puree, some Worcester Sauce,
a beef stock cube, 750g of potatoes,
a knob of butter, a dash of milk and some ready salted crisps.
So we'll start by preparing the onions. Cut each end off, chop them in half
then peel them. With a sharp knife carefully
finely chop them then set the
onions aside.
And now it's time for the carrots. Slice each end off, peel them then slice them length ways.
Then finely chop with your knife.
Now your carrots are ready, you need to get a large pan and stick it on the hob.
Then pour in some oil so we can fry.
Get your onions and carrots we
prepared earlier and throw them in the pan
then fry for about 5 minutes.
Then get your beef mince and throw that in the pan as well. Along with a couple of major squirts
of tomato puree,
some lashing of Worcester sauce and crumble in the stock cube.
Then give everything a stir and keep frying until the mince goes nice and brown.
Then when your mince sauce looks something like this, boil the kettle and
pour some water over the top so the
contents are just about covered. Then give everything one final stir
and leave it to simmer for about 40 to 50
minutes or until the sauce has thickened.
Meanwhile we can start preparing the mashed potato.
So peal all your spuds and chop them into chunks.
When you potatoes are ready, put some hot water on the go in a saucepan
and leave them to boil for about 15 minutes.
Once your potatoes are done, get yourself a colander then pour the potatoes in to
drain the water.
Then put them back in the saucepan, pour in the dash of milk
then put in your knob of butter.
Get the potato masher and mash the potatoes until they're nice and smooth.
...like me!
Once your mince sauce has finished simmering and you have a nice thick sauce,
give it a final stir and take it off the heat. Now it's ready to stick
everything into an oven dish.
Firstly spoon out your mince sauce into the dish
and then level it out so it's nice and flat.
Now get the mashed potato and spread it out over the mince sauce.
I find it easier to do if you spoon it out and use the
back of a spoon to spread it over and make
it nice and flat.
Once you have a nice uniform layer of mashed potato
get a folk and draw some lines in the
top and this will help it to crisp
up a little easier.
now bust open your packet of ready
salted crisps, crush them between your hands
whilst they're still in the packet
so they're nice and find. Then sprinkle
evenly
on the top of the cottage pie. Now it's
ready for the oven.
Stick it on about 190c and put the cottage pie in
for about 35 to 40 minutes. Make sure you
keep an eye on it
to make sure it's not burning and it's crisping up nicely. When its golden brown and it's
bubbling at the edges
you know it's cooked and it's ready to
serve. So why not enjoy
this cottage pie with your favorite veg
this winter?
And remember to check out even more of my recipes by clicking on one of the
videos coming up...